every single week online you'll see
people saying seo's dead no one uses
Google anymore or AI search has
overtaken everything is that really true
or is it complete nonsense I'm going to
share some data that evaluated over 5
trillion searches so you can understand
if SEO is really dead or if it's alive
and well and how you can start
dominating organic search for your B2B
service tech or SAS company let's dive
in wherever you look online especially
in the B2B marketing space there's tons
of influencers quote unquote claiming
that seo's dead everyone's using AI
tools like chat gbt perplexity gemini or
otherwise to do all of their searching
so when they're looking directly for
offers evaluating Solutions or have
problems to solve they're not going to
Google SEO is no more everyone's using
AI tools especially if you look at
platforms like LinkedIn X all these
claims seem to be driving marketers and
Founders decisions but is that actually
the truth let's review the recent data
and see what it says so let's look at
recent study carried out in March 2025
by spark Toro and datos so chat gbt
handles 37.5 million search like prompts
daily but how much do you think Google
does Google processes over 14 billion
searches each and every day that means
Google receives
373 times that's 373 times more searches
than chat GPT those numbers speak
themselves by the way if you want SEO to
finally start driving Pipeline and
revenue for your B2B tech service or SAS
company we've got a track record of
helping dozens of B2B companies make
this happen you can book a call over at
breaking bb.com or hit the link in the
description below right back to the
video now you might think AI search is
still in the growing phase and yeah I'd
agree that is completely true but if AI
search was killing Google and SEO as we
knew it was dead logically that would
mean that Google's market share is
steadily going down but as it stands
that's simply not true Google actually
had a record year in 2024 where their
searches grew by 21.64% Google maintains
a
93.57 market share of search all the AI
tools combined represent less than 2% of
the search market so right now the Gap
isn't closing it's actually winding in
Google's favor so what's actually
changed in SEO in 2025 and Beyond well
one of the big things that came out
recently was Google's AI overviews so
for some queries on Google they've got
an instant result above the fold that
instantly gives you an answer to your
question or query instead of having to
troll through and click into Blue Links
and go into website Pages you can get
instant answers and what you'll find is
a lot of the very simple pages is
whether those were very basic how to
search is like how to build a website or
what is search is like what is a kpi a
lot of those really simple top funnel
queries are being wiped out by AI
overviews now what does this mean well
one thing is that Google are constantly
raising the bar on quality content what
does that really mean well content
that's educational that shows expertise
in fact a while back Google rolled out a
framework called EA experience expertise
or authority and Trust which is
something you should always look to
portray so why can't you use tools like
chat gbt to pump out tons and tons of
pages and content rank for loads of
keywords and drive tons of traffic and
tons of leads sadly AI just isn't up to
scratch in my opinion at least AI is
great to use as a framework whether
that's building out page outlines or
building out rough structures of pages
but you really need that subject matter
expertise to kick in for your content
why well in the B2B space a lot of us
are selling High ticket software
solution or services and if folks land
on these pages and it doesn't resonate
with their problems their goals their
jobs to be done just talks about a load
of jargon and maybe in some cases
doesn't actually make complete sense and
the chances are they're going to bounce
off and go to a competitor that gives
them a better experience so a few quick
tips for ranking on Google ai overviews
ai search and llms one is brand mentions
on relevant external sites that seems to
be super good for showing up on llms
like chat gbt search and similar right
now the second is on a similar vein so
getting Niche relevant backlinks so
going after sites that perhaps aren't
direct competitors but actually serve
audiences that are going to be looking
up topics categories Etc relevant to the
niche that you talk about rather than
trying to spam out back Links at all
costs looking for websites that are
authorative and relevant to the
industries and niches you talk about
having clearly structured pages so a
descriptive H1 tag and headings that
break up text I.E we're using a quick
summary a quick intro and a why trust us
so section on the articles that we're
now putting out for our clients at
breaking B2B having engaging content so
leveraging rich media like YouTube video
embeds on your landing pages your
articles that are super relevant to the
topic having fresh and relevant contents
we talked about eat experience expertise
Authority and Trust keeping that at the
Forefront of your mind when you're
crafting any Pages out making sure each
and every page is deep and well
researched when it comes to the copy
itself and is actually going to engage
your dream clients writing in a
conversational
so that's why I'm not not leaning into
AI copy right now I'm thinking at how do
my clients talk what's the jargon they
use and how can we actually resonate
with those folks going after crisp and
long tail keywords with a commercial
Focus I what's my dream client actually
searching for when they're ready to have
a sales conversation now and addressing
common queries questions FAQs and
objections headon speaking to my sales
team my customer support team my
customer success team to really know
what my dream clients care about
learning their common objections and
queries that we can address head-on on
our content and basic technical SEO so
things like making sure your website
loads fast it works smoothly on mobile
tablet and PC breaking up content as we
talked about having internal links to
and from relevant pages so what's the
opportunity for B2B companies when it
comes to SEO well trust is an all-time
low many companies know what the
difference is especially on Google
between a sponsored ad and an organic
listing and many Place more trust in the
organic non-paid search results as well
as that paid ad costs are constantly
rising and Rising especially on
platforms like Google ads meta and
Linkedin so the beauty of SEO and
organic search is you can lower your
cost per acquisition you can show up for
those dream clients that have high
intent for your offer when they're
searching directly for the service
product or software when they're
comparing options or when they have the
problems you solve you can dve a
sustainable flow of organic traffic and
pipeline not just that but the content
that you produce is Evergreen so it can
drive inbounds and traffic not just for
now but for months and years to come so
if you're sleeping on SEO it might be
time to reconsider now it comes to
building out pages that rank resonate
and convert dream clients I recommend a
strategy called the blowout the water
strategy and summarizing that in simple
terms is basically Googling one of your
main keywords and seeing what type of
content ranks right now is it a landing
page article comparison page or some
something else reviewing those top
organic competitor Pages looking for
gaps that you can double down on so
maybe it's quite a thin content page
maybe they any scratch the surface on
the topic maybe if it's a comparison
article like the top five options for
2025 of this particular service or
software maybe it's very thin maybe
they're just talking about how great
they are and you can kind of Leverage
your differentiators in the market you
can feature your product maybe you have
comparison tables maybe you weave in a
YouTube video in bed specifically to
help the end user on that topic or guide
so you're basically looking to make your
page the most useful trustworthy
convincing and helpful on the internet
and then building those trust signals
showing you're the author of the page
having social proof showing examples
that you've helped other clients then
clear call to action to take a relevant
Next Step oh and I made a full B2B SEO
guide that you can check out I hope this
video shed some light on why SEO
certainly ain't dead yet and why you
shouldn't believe everything that you
see
online and if you're a Tob tech service
or SAS company that finally wants to
take SEO seriously and wants to drive
consistent pipeline leads and revenue
with SEO why not book a call with us
over at breaking bb.com we can chat
through where at now and where You' like
to get to to see if we're a good match
to start fueling your business with
qualified organic sales leads through
the power of organic search so head over
to Breaking bb.com or click the first
link in the description below or if
you're not ready why not check out the
breaking B2B podcast or the breaking B2B
newsletter for free actionable SEO tips
and with that I should catch you on the
next one cheers